Outreach blog post (#1802)
elixir-lang/elixir-lang.github.com: _posts/2025-06-02-elixir-outreach-stipend-for-speakers.markdown

* You will be expected to send a report about your experience. How short or long the report will be is up to you. The best would be to write a blog post or an article, sharing your experiences as a whole with the involved communities, but if you would prefer to only send it privately to us, that is fine too!

The event must happen within your area. We won't place limits on distance or event types, simply keep in mind our overall goal is to support multiple individuals, rather than spend all fund on a few long-distance flights (such as across coasts or across continents). If in doubt, reach out to [elixir_outreach at erlef dot org](mailto:elixir_outreach@erlef.org)

Our initial budget is of $7000, donated by Dashbit ($5000) and Oban ($2000), specifically for this program to the Erlang Ecosystem Foundation, which will oversee the distribution of the funds.

## Requesting a stipend

You can request a stipend [in the Erlang Ecosystem Foundation website and choose the “Elixir Outreach” as the stipend type](https://erlef.org/stipends/form?type=elixir-outreach).

> We recommend reaching out to us before submitting or accepting your talk. Given we have limited funds, we cannot guarantee they will be available by the time you request them. Therefore, by contacting us early, we can validate if the event matches the criteria above, ask questions, and earmark the funds. Once your talk is accepted, you send us the flight and accommodation costs, and we will transfer the stipend to you, not to exceed $700 USD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given we have limited funds, we cannot guarantee they will be available when you request them. We recommend reaching out to us before submitting or accepting your talk. Therefore, by contacting us early, we can validate if the event matches the criteria above, ask questions, and earmark the funds. Once your talk is accepted, send us any itemized travel and accommodation costs so we can transfer the stipend to you, (not in excess of $700 USD).
```

You can also request a stipend after your talk has already been accepted, but then there are no guarantees a stipend will be available.

> Our goal is to make this process as simple and straight-forward as possible, although keep in mind we reserve the right to refuse a request for any reason. If in doubt, reach out to [elixir_outreach at erlef dot org](mailto:elixir_outreach@erlef.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal is to make this process simple and as straight-forward as possible. Although, we reserve the right to refuse a request for any reason. If in doubt, reach out to [elixir_outreach at erlef dot org](mailto:elixir_outreach@erlef.org).
```

## Acknowledgements

> This is a new effort for all of us involved so please be patient while we figure out the details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a new effort for all involved! Please be patient while we figure out the details.
```

> If you are looking for conferences to speak at, [Dave Aronson keeps a list of CFPs closing soon](https://www.codosaur.us/speaking/cfps-ending-soon) and there are likely others available. Note we don’t necessarily endorse all conferences listed nor guarantee they meet the requirements above, but the list may help you get the ball rolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are looking for conferences to speak at, [Dave Aronson keeps a list of CFPs closing soon](https://www.codosaur.us/speaking/cfps-ending-soon) and there are likely others available. Note, we don’t necessarily endorse all of the conferences listed nor guarantee they meet the requirements above, but the list may help you get the ball rolling.
```
